Hello Class,

According to our textbook, "In Java, a programmer doesn’t implement a single object. Instead, the programmer provides a class. A class describes a set of objects with the same behavior. For example, the String class describes the behavior of all strings" (Horstmann, 2016, pg. 376). In object-oriented programming, a class is similar to a 'template' that is used to define the structure or behavior of different objects. For example, I created a class for 'dog' which generally defines what properties or behaviors the dog has, it doesn't contain anything specific about the 'dog' until an object is created from the class. This class included properties like breed, age, and color. An 'object' is a specific attribute or instance of a class. They represent specific instances of the class, with values for the properties defined by the class. For example, when I created an object from the 'Dog' class (by using: " Dog dog1= new Dog(); "), I specified the details for a particular dog like a Cocker Spaniel named Venus, and included other attributes. Another example of a class can be a person, food, or a car. A 'car' class can include properties like make, model, year, and color. Another difference is that classes usually don't change once compiled and they don't hold data or perform tasks. But an object is considered a 'dynamic entity' because it can perform actions and hold data which can change during program executions.


Reference:
Horstmann, C. S. (2016).&nbsp;Big Java Late Objects, 2nd Edition. Wiley Global Education.
